{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww27120\viewh15360\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs50 \cf0 Laurian Staicu\
1696177\
\

\b In what ways does IT contribute to the growth of Wal-Mart?\

\b0 \
First we have to understand Walmart strategy and then comprehend how this strategy is implemented using \'a0Information Systems and Technology (IST). \
\
From the very beginning Walmart established their mission statement as being Operational Excellence. Operational Excellence represents high quality , lower cost , low inventory level etc.. and Walmart succeeded being the best at it using IST!\
\
Walmart primarily invested in the supply chain in order to achieve the highest level of Operational Excellence. Implementing a state of the art supply chain was accomplished with IST,which is the most cost effective solution. Walmart was also a pioneer using some IST solutions.\
\
Waltmart was not the only company that started using technology by the first one that made its strategy open to everybody involved in their business: suppliers, employees and customers. The openness of their mission \'a0is one of the key factor of their success and it became a standard in the business world. Successful businesses have their strategy shared with employees , suppliers and customers. \
\
\

\b How is Wal-Mart using IT to share data and information with suppliers? Why does this lead to lower prices for consumers? \

\b0 \
Technology represents the main \'a0force in Walmart\'92s supply chain, standing as \'a0their foundation. Walmart has the biggest information technology infrastructure of any private company in the world. Its state-of-the-art technology and network design allow Walmart to accurately forecast demand, track and predict inventory levels, create highly efficient transportation routes, and manage customer relationships and service response logistics.\
\
Walmart\'92s supply chain innovation began with the company removing a few of the chain\'92s links. In the 1980s, Walmart began working directly with manufacturers to cut costs and more efficiently manage the supply chain.\
\
Under a Walmart\'92s supply chain initiative called Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI), manufacturers became responsible for managing their products in Walmart\'92s warehouses. As a result, Walmart was able to expect close to 100% order fulfilment on merchandise.\
\
Part of Walmart strategy , in \'a01991 the company defined and implemented a proprietary data sharing system with their suppliers called Retail Link . The system not only improved forecasting and marketing , but also pushed for competition between suppliers within the supply chain. More than forty thousand suppliers are given access to their product data that includes daily sales, shipments, returns, purchase orders, invoices, claims and forecasts. \
\
The competition results in lowering merchandise price for Walmart, and also the data sharing system improved the supplier\'92s time and cost in planning their production and distribution. The wonderful benefit is to Walmart\'92s customers by keeping the same quality and lowering the price tag of their products.\
\
In accordance to their strategy, In 1995 Walmart also promoted an open source initiative called \'a0CFAR ( Collaborative Forecasting and Replenishment). CFAR \'a0is a concept that aims to enhance supply chain integration by supporting and assisting joint practices. CFAR seeks cooperative management of inventory through joint visibility and replenishment of products throughout the supply chain.\
\
\

\b What are Wal-Mart\'92s recent innovations, and how will they lead to lower costs?\

\b0 \
Waltmart introduced in 2003 Web based EID (electronic data interchange) , therefore the data exchange with suppliers will be performed over the Web instead of using value-added networks (VAN). The return on the investment (conversion from VAN to WebEID) was achieved in as little as two months. The operation and maintenance costs of the information system were lowered. The deployment of new IS is faster and less expensive.\
\
In recent years, Wal-Mart has used radio frequency identification tags (RFID), which use numerical codes that can be scanned from a distance to track pallets of merchandise moving along the supply chain. As inventory must be handled by both Wal-Mart and its suppliers, Wal-Mart has encouraged its suppliers to use RFID technology as well.\
Even more recently, the company has begun using smart tags, read by a handheld scanner, that allow employees to quickly learn which items need to be replaced so that shelves are consistently stocked and inventory is closely watched.\
According to researchers at the University of Arkansas, there was a 16% reduction in out-of-stocks since Walmart introduced RFID technology into its supply chain. The researchers also pointed out that the products using an electronic product code were replenished three times as fast as items that only used bar code technology.\
\
\
\

\b Search for more Wal-Mart\'92s technology-innovation used today.\

\b0 \
Walmart patented a robot that would carry the cart through the store aisles. The shape of the robot is a disc and resembles to the  cleaning robot Roomba. The shopping list will be scanned and the robot will follow the customer to the aisles and shelves. It uses sensors and cameras to navigate through the store. The patent is called \'94 Shopping Facility the Assistance System, Devices and Methods\'94, and it was filed on March 4 2016. The company that help with the patent is Five Elements Robotics. These robots we'll be in a docking area waiting for the shoppers to activate them for their shopping experience. The customer will initiate the assistance, and the robot will navigate from the holding area to the card and move towards the customer. The customer can decide to detach the robot from the card or to continue the shopping experience assisted by the self driving card. The robot takes also Voice commands. The robot can be controlled using Mobile devices also.\
\
Another development in Walmart strategies is the acquisition of Jet.com for about 3.3 billion, an e-commerce start up found y Marc Lore. This is Walmart\'92s first huge acquisition in e-commerce to try to compete with Amazon, that dominates the e-commerce the way Walmart rules brick-and-mortar. Walmart had already spend billions for its online operations, by hiring thousands of people and building huge e-commerce distribution hubs. Mark Lore will replace Neil Ashe as the current head of e-commerce. Walmart started a subscription service half price of what Amazon is offering. E-commerce represents the leading business strategy that Walmart follows aggressively.\
\
Walmart implemented a mobile payment system , called Walmart Pay (WP) , that shoppers can use in all their stores in the US. The app is available on IOS or Android with the promise of a very efficient checkout experience. Mobile payments systems are already in place such as Apple pay and Android pay. These methods are using Near Field Communications(NFC) which let you tap your device at a NFC enabled register . Walmart is using a quick response code (QR code) system which works by entering the PIN number in the application and scanning a barcode at the cash register. That makes Walmart the first retailer that uses its own proprietary payment system via mobile Devices. Walmart Pay works only at it's location and also it does not accept any other form of mobile payment.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}